Project Research Document – ISeeTraffic
X00071029 – Aaron Connolly
October 3, 2014

Detailed Discussion

The idea that I have selected for my project is ISeeTraffic. This is an android application that 
will allow users to help other users avoid traffic problems. If a user of the application is 
sitting in traffic and would like to warn other road users of traffic congestion all they will 
have to do is click the traffic button on the application. Their GPS location and the time the 
user clicked the traffic button will be stored. This will be used to determine where the 
problem areas are at each time of the day. The users of the application will receive 
daily/weekly notices of the problem areas and at which time these areas have traffic 
congestion. There are two other pieces of functionality I would like to add to the 
application. These are:

 Newsfeed: I would like to add instant updates of traffic problems in a newsfeed 
format. When a user of the application clicks the traffic button then the time and 
their location will be presented onto a newsfeed. This will allow other users within a 
certain distance to receive a notice of traffic congestion in a certain area.

Accident Report: This functionality would allow users of the application to report an 
accident. This report of the accident would also appear on the newsfeed.

The Users

This application is aimed at all road users. In particular, road users who are travelling to and 
from work in rush hour traffic. I feel this application would be of great assistance to them 
avoiding major traffic congestion.

Existing Applications
Application Similarities Differences
Waze  Warns users of 
traffic congestion.
 The application is all 
about togetherness 
between drivers.
 Users can report
traffic accidents.
 This application 
provides directions.
 This application 
collects data about 
your drive. E.g.
speed, detours etc.
Solving Traffic Congestion  
Warns users of 
traffic congestion.
 Congestion is 
determined by your 
speed. 
 Traffic speeds 
updates are sent 
automatically and 
anonymously.

Platform, Technologies and Libraries

ADT Bundle

I will be using the ADT bundle for the development of this application. ADT Bundle contains 
all the SDK components that are required along with a version of Eclipse IDE. ADT Bundle 
provides the below:
 Android Platform Tools
 Eclipse + ADT Plug-in
 Android SDK Tools
 A system image for the emulator.

XML

XML will be the data exchange format used for the communication between the mobile 
device and Azure. I have chosen XML because it is a proven standard that also provides a 
format that is durable for the storage of information and the transmission of that 
information. It also makes code scalable.

JSON

JSON is an open standard format that is used to transmit data between a server and a web 
application. This may be used as an alternative to XML.

SQL

SQL is the language that is used to design and manage data in the database. SQL allows data 
to be inserted into the table, deleted from the table, and updated in the table. It also allows 
database queries to retrieve information from the database.

Azure

I will be using Windows Azure for the database of the application. Azure is a cloud platform 
which allows for any tool, language or framework to be used to build the application while 
also allowing you to maintain the application.

D3

D3 is a JavaScript library that allows you bring data to life. D3 allows you to powerfully visual 
data. This may be used to visualise the traffic data for my application.

The Risks

I believe that there are risks to my project. These risks are:

 Newsfeed Complexity: Creating a newsfeed for my traffic application will be difficult 
and complex. After research I discovered that the easiest way to create a newsfeed 
for an android application is to use a List View. You have to bind the data from the 
application to the list view.
 Legality: Another risk I discovered during the research stage of this project is that 
recently the law changed in Ireland in relation to the use of mobile devices while 
driving. The law used to allow the use of phones as long as it was in a hands free kit. 
The law has been now changed, you are not allowed have your phone on display in 
your car. This a major risk to my application. 
 GPS Location: There is a risk in relation to the GPS location. The application been a 
success is determined by its accuracy and efficiency. If the location of the user is 
incorrect then this would have a major effect on the efficiency of the application.
